# Switches (L2 & L3)

The **switch** is used to connect multiple hosts together and to send traffic in a LAN.

A **switch** is a **Layer 2** device, which means that it can inspect received traffic and make forwarding decisions.

The **switch** use a MAC address table to only forward the frames out of the correct ports.

On a switch, each port is a separate collision domain and can run in a full duplex mode.

## How switches work

Switches use **MAC addresses** to make accurate forwarding or filtering decision.
When a switch receives a frame, it associates the **Media Access Control (MAC)** address of the sending device with the port on which it was received.
The **MAC address table**, that stores **IP-MAC address** associations, is stored in the volatile memory, so associations are erased after the switch is rebooted.

Switches usually perform these three functions in a LAN:

- **Address learning** – switches learn MAC addresses by examining the source MAC address of each received frame
- **Forward/filter decisions** – switches decide whether to forward or filter a frame, based on the destination MAC address
- **Loop avoidance** – switches use Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) to prevent network loops while still permitting redundancy

## Layer 2 switching

**Layer 2 switches** are faster than routers because they don’t take up time looking at the Network layer header information.
Instead, they look at the frame’s hardware addresses to decide what to do with the frame – to forward, flood, or drop it.

Sdvantages of Layer 2 switching:

– Fast hardware-based bridging (using ASICs chips)
– Wire speed
– Low latency
– Low cost

[[Study CCNA](https://study-ccna.com/layer-2-switching/)]

## Layer 3 switching

A **Layer 3 switch** is a network device that has the functionality of a router and a switch combined into one chassis.
It works in the network by simply allowing connected devices that are on the same subnet or virtual LAN (VLAN) to exchange information.

A **Multilayer switch** can

- Inspect incoming packets in the network layer (Layer 3)
- Support routing protocols
- Make routing decisions based on the source and destination IP addresses

**Multilayer Switch** benefits

- Better fault isolation and traffic segregation
- Simplify security management
- Reduce broadcast traffic volume
- Easier VLAN configuration process
- Support Inter-VLAN routing
- Separate routing tables
- Reduce effort and time in troubleshooting
- Support flow accounting and high-speed scalability
- Lower network latency

[[Study CCNA](https://study-ccna.com/layer-3-switch/)]

## Bridge

A Bridge is an intermediate device between a switch and a hub.

### Bridge vs Switch

- A bridge learns MAC addresses in software
- The switch learns MAC addresses much more quickly by using hardware **ASIC**s **(Application Specific Integrated Circuits)**
