## Firewalls

The Firewall using so called "Firewall rules" to permit or deny traffic.

## Next-generation firewalls (NGFW)

**Next-Generation Firewall (NGFW)** (originally called __Unified Threat Management (UTM)__) provide multiple security features and services in a single device or service on the network.
NGFW includes functions such as anti-virus, anti-spam, content filtering, and web filtering.

**IDS** - Intrusion Detection System

- An IDS can warn when there's an attack taking place.

**IPS** - Intrusion Prevention System

- An IPS can warn when there's an attach taking place and also block the attack.

[[Juniper Networks](https://www.juniper.net/us/en/research-topics/what-is-utm.html)]

## Stateful vs. Stateless

**Stateful firewalls** monitor all aspects of the traffic stream; their characteristics and commuinication channels.

Stateful firewalls firewalls can
- Integrate encryption or tunnels,
- Identify TCP connection stages,
- Packet state and other key status updates.

**Stateless firewalls** use clues from the destination address, source and other key values to assess whether threats are present, then block or restrict those deemed untrusted.
Preset rules enforce whether traffic is permitted or denied, but the system is typically unable to determine the difference between truly desired communications and sophisticated attempts to disguise unauthorized communications as trusted ones.
As one of the earlier iterations of firewalls, stateless firewalls don't look beyond the header of packet contents to determine if traffic is authorized.

## URL filtering

URL filtering limits access by comparing web traffic against a database to prevent employees from accessing harmful sites such as phishing pages.
Each website defined in the database is assigned to a URL category, or group, that firms can utilize in one of two ways:

1. Block or allow traffic based on URL category.
Create a URL Filtering profile that specifies an action for each URL category and attach the profile to a policy.
This includes categories for malware or phishing sites.
2. Match traffic based on URL category for policy enforcement.
If the goal is for a specific policy rule to apply only to specific web traffic categories, add the category as match criteria when creating the policy rule.

[[Palo Alto networks - Cyberpedia](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-url-filtering)]

### DLP - Data Loss Prevention

[[McAfee](https://www.mcafee.com/enterprise/en-us/security-awareness/data-protection/how-data-loss-prevention-dlp-technology-works.html)]
