# PortFast BPDU Guard

**BPDU Guard** is a feature that defends the Layer 2 Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) topology against BPDU-related threats and is designed to protect the switching network.
The **BPDU Guard** feature must be activated on ports that should not receive BPDUs from connected devices

[[Cisco Docs](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/lan/catalyst4000/8-2glx/configuration/guide/stp_enha.html)]

## Understanding how PortFast BPDU Guard works

To prevent loops from occurring in a network, the PortFast mode is supported only on nontrunking access ports because these ports typically do not transmit or receive BPDUs.
The most secure implementation of PortFast is to enable it only on ports that connect end stations to switches.
Because PortFast can be enabled on nontrunking ports connecting two switches, spanning tree loops can occur because BPDUs are still being transmitted and received on those ports.

PortFast BPDU guard prevents loops by moving a nontrunking port into an errdisable state when a BPDU is received on that port.
When you enable BPDU guard on the switch, spanning tree shuts down PortFast-configured interfaces that receive BPDUs instead of putting them into the spanning tree blocking state.
In a valid configuration, PortFast-configured interfaces do not receive BPDUs.
If a PortFast-configured interface receives a BPDU, an invalid configuration exists.
BPDU guard provides a secure response to invalid configurations because the administrator must manually put the interface back in service.

> Note<br>
> When BPDU Guard is enabled on the switch, spanning tree applies BPDU guard to all PortFast-configured interfaces.

## Configuring PortFast BPDU Guard

The following sections describe how to configure **PortFast BPDU** guard on the switch.

### Enabling PortFast BPDU Guard

The PortFast feature is configured on an individual port, and the PortFast BPDU guard option is configured either globally or on a per-port basis.

When PortFast is disabled on a port, PortFast BPDU guard becomes inactive.<br>
The port configuration overrides the global configuration unless the port configuration is set to default.

- If the port configuration is set to default, the global configuration is checked.
- If the port configuration is enabled, the port configuration is used and the global configuration is not used.

To enable and verify PortFast BPDU guard on a nontrunking switch port, perform this task in privileged mode:

| Step       | Task                                    | Command                                                                    |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Step 1** | Enable BPDU guard on an individual port | `set spantree portfast bpdu-guard mod/port [disable \| enable \| default]` |
| **Step 2** | Verify the PortFast BPDU guard setting  | `show spantree summary`                                                    |

This example shows how to enable PortFast BPDU guard on module 6 port 1, and verify the configuration in the Per VLAN Spanning Tree+ (PVST+) mode:

```
Console> (enable) set spantree portfast bpdu-guard 6/1 enable
Spantree port  6/1 bpdu guard enabled.
Console> (enable)
Console> (enable) show spantree summary
Root switch for vlans: none.
Portfast bpdu-guard enabled for bridge.
Uplinkfast disabled for bridge.
Backbonefast disabled for bridge.
```

Enable PortFast BPDU guard on a specific port:

```
SW1(config-if)#spanning-tree bpduguard ?
  disable   Disable BPDU guard for this interface
  enable    Enable BPDU guard for this interface
```

Enable PortFast BPDU guard **globally** on a switch:

When BPDU guard is enabled globally, it effects all the ports that are configured as PortFast ports.

```
SW1(config)#spanning-tree portfast ?
  edge      Spanning tree portfast edge options
  network   Spanning tree portfast network options
  normal    Spanning tree portfast normal options

SW1(config)#spanning-tree portfast edge ?
  bpdufilter  Enable portfast edge bpdu filter on this switch
  bpduguard   Enable portfast edge bpdu guard on this switch
  default     Enable portfast edge by defualt on all access ports

SW1(config)#spanning-tree portfast edge bpduguard default
```

> Note<br>
> When BPDU guard is enabled globally, it effects all the ports that are configured as PortFast ports.<br>
> When BPDU guard is configured on the interface, the interface doesn't have to be configured as a PortFast port.<br>
> If an interface receives a BPDU packet, it becomes error-disabled (shut down).

## Disabling PortFast BPDU Guard

To disable PortFast BPDU guard, perform this task in privileged mode:

```
Console> (enable) set spantree portfast bpdu-guard disable
Spantree portfast bpdu-guard disabled on this switch.
Console> (enable) show spantree summary
Summary of connected spanning tree ports by vlan
```
