## WAN

A **Wide Area Network (WAN)** is a telecommunications network that spans LAN over multiple geographic locations.

A company has two offices: one in London and one in Berlin.
Both offices have a LAN.
If theses two LANs are connected together using a **WAN** technology, a **WAN** is created.

The difference between LANs and **WAN**s is that the company usually doesn't own **WAN** infrastructure.
A company usually leases **WAN** services from a service provider.

[[Study CCNA](https://study-ccna.com/wide-area-network/)]

## WAN connection types

Technically, two or more local area networks can be connected via **WAN** with different layer 3 devices (like routers or firewalls).

Most **WAN** IP address uses the static public IP address, dynamic public IP address, and PPPoE (Point-to-Point Protocol) as the connection to the ISP depending on the subscription.
Static public IP addresses are much expensive compared to dynamic and PPPoE, because we only have limited unique public IP addresses that cannot be reused by other customers.
Private IP addresses are only routable on the local network and not routable over WAN or the internet.

### 1. Leased Line

This connection type is a dedicated point-to-point link and fixed-bandwidth data connection.
By using **leased line**, the network will have a completely **secured** and **reliable connection**, **high bandwidth**, and superior **quality of service**.

### 2. Digital Subscriber Line

**DSL** is a medium used to transfer digital signals over the standard telephone lines.
**DSL** is an older concept that provides a typical speed of around 6mbps.

### 3. Cable Internet

**Cable Internet** also uses an existing cable modem from cable TV to transmit data.
The speed varies with the number of users on the service at a specific time.

### 4. Fiber Internet Access

**Fiber Internet Access** is the newest broadband connection that provides the highest internet speed service.
It is commonly used in telecommunication backhaul connection because of the higher speed it can handle compared to other cables.
DWDM, SONET, and SDH are the ISP backhaul transport equipment that used fiber optic cable.

### 5. Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS)

**MPLS** is a type of VPN that uses labels on forwarding packets instead of IP addresses or Layer 3 headers.
It offers optimum security and routing for customer's sites.
On **MPLS**, the ISP is participating in the customer's routing.

### 6. Wireless WAN

Commonly known connection types of wireless WAN are 3G, 4G, 5G, and LTE.
