# Default Route

**Default Route** establishes a forwarding rule for packets when no specific address of a next-hop host is available from the routing table or other routing mechanisms.<br>

The **Default Route** is generally the address of another router, which treats the packet the same way:

- If a route matches, the packet is forwarded accordingly.
- Otherwise the packet is forwarded to the default route of that router.

The device to which the default route points is often called the **Default Gateway**, and it often carries out other functions such as _packet filtering_, _firewalling_, or _proxy server operations_.

The **Default Route** in **IPv4** is designated as the zero address: **0.0.0.0/0** in CIDR.<br>
The **Default Route** in **IPv6** is specified by **::/0**.<br>
The subnet mask is specified as **/0**, which effectively specifies all networks and is the shortest match possible.
A route lookup that does not match any other rule falls back to this route.

[[Wikipedia - Default Route](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Default_route)]<br>
[[Study CCNA - Default static route](https://study-ccna.com/default-static-route/)]<br>

## Route Evaluation Process

The **Route Evaluation Process** in each router uses the longest prefix match method to obtain the most specific route:
The network with the longest subnet mask or network prefix that matches the destination IP address is the next-hop network gateway.

The process repeats until a packet is delivered to the destination host, or earlier along the route, when a router has no default route available and cannot route the packet otherwise.
In the latter case, the packet is dropped and an **ICMP Destination Unreachable** message may be returned.

## Configuration

### Create Static Route

Use the following command to create a **Default Static Route** on R1:

```
R1(config)#ip route <zero_address> <zero_subnet_mask> <default_route>
R1(config)#ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 10.0.0.2
```

This command instructs R1 to match all IP address and subnet masks and send the packets to 10.0.0.2.<br>
Now, this path is added to R1's routing table:

```
R1#show ip route

Gateway of last resort is 10.0.0.2 to network 0.0.0.0

     10.0.0.0/8 is variably subnetted, 2 subnets, 2 masks
C       10.0.0.0/24 is directly connected, GigabitEthernet0/1
L       10.0.0.1/32 is directly connected, GigabitEthernet0/1
     192.168.0.0/24 is variably subnetted, 2 subnets, 2 masks
C       192.168.0.0/24 is directly connected, GigabitEthernet0/0
L       192.168.0.1/32 is directly connected, GigabitEthernet0/0
S*   0.0.0.0/0 [1/0] via 10.0.0.2
```

Notice how the gateway of last resort is set to 10.0.0.2.
There is also a route marked with **S\*** in the routing table: the static default route is a candidate default route and \* (astrisk) indicates that this static route is a candidate to become the default route.

### Remove Static Route

Use the `no ip route` command to remove a **Static Route** on R1:

```
R1(config)#no ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 10.0.0.2
```

## Default Route vs. Default Gateway

The **Default Route** is the destination that a packet is sent to if the router doesn't have instructions to send it somewhere else.<br>
If the packet doesn't match any subnet in the routing table (and there is a **Default Route**), the packet will take the **Default Route** and the packet will be delivered to the next hop defined in the **Default Route**.

The **Default Route** is used on **routers**, while the **Default Gateway** is used on **hosts**.

**Default Gateway** provide a default route for TCP/IP hosts to use when communicating with other hosts on remote networks.<br>
The **Default Gateway** is the port of exit from the subnet (exit of a broadcast domain) to another subnet, WAN, etc.
