# Longest Prefix Match

**Longest Prefix Match** (also called **Maximum Prefix Length Match**) refers to an algorithm used by routers in Internet Protocol (IP) networking to select an entry from a routing table.

Because each entry in a [forwarding table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forwarding_information_base) may specify a sub-network, one destination address may match more than one forwarding table entry.
The most specific of the matching table entries — the one with the longest subnet mask — is called the longest prefix match.
It is called this because it is also the entry where the largest number of leading address bits of the destination address match those in the table entry.

Example:<br>
Consider this IPv4 forwarding table (CIDR notation is used):

```
192.168.20.16/28
192.168.0.0/16
```

When the address `192.168.20.19` needs to be looked up, both entries in the forwarding table "match".
That is, both entries contain the looked up address.
In this case, the longest prefix of the candidate routes is `192.168.20.16/28`, since its subnet mask (`/28`) is longer than the other entry's mask (`/16`), making the route more specific.

Forwarding tables often contain a default route, which has the shortest possible prefix match, to fall back on in case matches with all other entries fail.

[[Wikipedia - Longest prefix match](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Longest_prefix_match)]

## Administrative Distance vs. Mask length

**Administrative Distances** are only used if multiple routing protocols are trying to put the same route into the routing table.

| Router | Router IP    | Network learned via Routing Protocol | AD    |
| ------ | ------------ | ------------------------------------ | ----- |
| **R1** | 10.2.0.0 /27 | ---                                  | ---   |
| **R2** | 10.1.1.0 /27 | 10.1.1.0/27 advertised via RIPv2     | (120) |
| **R3** | 10.1.1.32/27 | 10.1.0.0/16 advertised via BGP       | (200) |
| **R4** | 10.1.1.64/27 | 10.0.0.0/8 advertised via OSPF       | (110) |

- **R1** will see the advertised routes as 3 separate and distinct routes.
- In this case, the length of the path takes precedence over **Administrative Distance**.
- Network 10.1.1.0/27 is chosen as it has the longest match (Subnet Mask /27).
- The ping from **R1** will go via **R2** as it is the best match in the routing table.
